<h1 class="with-tabs">Testing on the Test Service Platform</h1>

<p>Once the initial development work has been completed, the operation of the code can be tested against the MISE Test Platform. The following steps detail the process to test.</p>
<p>All information exchanged on the Test Platform must be TEST ONLY. No operational data may be exchanged on the Test Platform</p>
<ol><li> Contact the MISE Engineering Team to obtain a test keystore. The test keystore provides the private key and certificate for one of the identities in the test Trust Fabric. This will allow connections with the security services on the MISE Test Platform.
</li><li> Test the SSL handshake process with the Test Platform. Using the test keystore, it should be possible to make the initial SSL connection, enabling further testing. Test the
</li><li> Once the SSL connection has been established, test information can be published. Test publish and update for success and error conditions.
</li><li> With the SSL connection, the delete operation can also be tested. Test delete for both success and error conditions.
</li><li> If the search and retrieve services are required, the SAML assertions for user entitlement exchange should be tested. Ensure that the trusted system code can create and sign the necessary assertions to pass user entitlement information. Once a SAML assertion is correctly passed to the Test Platform, it will return a session cookie representing that user entitlement session, enabling access to the search and retrieve services. This test process should also test that the trusted system code correctly separates sessions, handles errors, logs out, and handles SAML re-assertion when a session expires.
</li><li> Once user entitlement sessions can be established, the search service can be tested. Test that issuing queries for previously published information is successful. Test for error conditions and handling empty responses. Finally, if a query will return too much information, the MISE will issue a 413 error code. Make sure this case is handled, typically by refining and re-issuing the query.
</li><li> The final operation to test is retrieve. Using the results of a search, check that the full NIEM-M instance document can be retrieved. Again, make sure that error conditions are correctly handled
</li><li> For a system that does both publish and search/retrieve, a final end-to-end test can be performed by publishing and then searching for and retrieving an information product or a set of products.
</li></ol><p> Testing a publishing system requires steps 1-4, since user entitlements and session handling is not required for publish and delete. Testing a search/retrieve consumer system requires steps 1,2, and 5-8. The MISE Engineering Team is available to help with error logs and debugging code on the MISE side. The <a href="specifications.md">Specifications</a> detail all of the error code and header information that might be returned by the MISE for success and failure states in the interaction.</p>
